[docs] Added GitHub actions+browserstack guide (#5344)
DevExpress/testcafe: docs/articles/documentation/guides/continuous-integration/github-actions-and-browserstack.md

* [Step 6 - Add a Step that Runs TestCafe](#step-6---add-a-step-that-runs-testcafe)
* [Action Options](#action-options)
  * [args](#args)
  * [version](#version)
* [Example](#example)

## Step 1 - Create a Workflow

Create a YAML file (for instance, `testcafe-workflow.yml`) in the `.github/workflows` directory in your repository.

Specify the [workflow name](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#name) and the [event](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#on) that triggers this workflow.

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]
```

In this example, the workflow runs when you push changes to the repository.

## Step 2 - Create a Job

Create a job that runs the TestCafe tests.

Provide the [job name](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idname) and specify the [type of machine](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idruns-on) that should run the job.

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]

jobs:
  test:
    name: Run TestCafe Tests

>     runs-on: windows-latest

Reviewer: It's quite a nitpick, but when we use cloud browsers, we can use any base OS with no or little differences.

Author: @AndreyBelym So it seems. I tried launching a simple test for a matrix `os: [ubuntu-latest, windows-latest, macos-latest]` and all of them ran fine. MacOS has a [lower limit for concurrent jobs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/getting-started-with-github-actions/about-github-actions#usage-limits) though.

I guess we could mention that all OS's are pretty much interchangable in this case. Should I add a config example for a [self-hosted runner](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/about-self-hosted-runners) as well?

Reviewer: Well, I think instructions for connecting self-hosted runners can be useful for some people. Actually, we use self-hosted runners to run our functional tests with BrowserStack due to some networking problems.

Author: Added [here](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe/pull/5344/commits/523a569bddd4a49ecd2051d3ae0ca476ad3b8f19) 

Please review

---
layout: docs
title: Run Tests on BrowserStack with GitHub Actions
permalink: /documentation/guides/continuous-integration/github-actions-and-browserstack.html
redirect_from:
  - /documentation/recipes/integrating-testcafe-with-ci-systems/github-actions-and-browserstack.html
  - /documentation/continuous-integration/github-actions-and-browserstack.html
---
# Run Tests on BrowserStack with GitHub Actions

> This topic describes use of [Run TestCafe action](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-action) to integrate TestCafe into the [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions) build process. Tests are performed in [BrowserStack](https://automate.browserstack.com/) cloud testing service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to use the [Run TestCafe action](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-action) to integrate TestCafe into the [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions) build process. Tests are performed in the [BrowserStack](https://automate.browserstack.com/) cloud testing service.
```

* [Step 1 - Create a Workflow](#step-1---create-a-workflow)
* [Step 2 - Create a Job](#step-2---create-a-job)

> * [Step 3 - Provide your BrowserStack credentials](#step-3---provide-browserstack-credentials)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Step 3 - Provide Your BrowserStack Credentials](#step-3---provide-browserstack-credentials)
```

> * [Step 4 - Add a Step That Fetches The Repository](#step-4---add-a-step-that-fetches-the-repository)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Step 4 - Add a Step that Fetches the Repository](#step-4---add-a-step-that-fetches-the-repository)
```

> * [Step 5 - Add a Step To Install TestCafe BrowserStack plugin](#step-5---add-a-step-to-install-testcafe-browserstack-plugin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Step 5 - Add a Step to Install TestCafe BrowserStack Plugin](#step-5---add-a-step-to-install-testcafe-browserstack-plugin)
```

> * [Step 6 - Add a Step That Runs TestCafe](#step-6---add-a-step-that-runs-testcafe)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Step 6 - Add a Step that Runs TestCafe](#step-6---add-a-step-that-runs-testcafe)
```

Specify the [workflow name](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#name) and the [event](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#on) that triggers this workflow.

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]
```

In this example, the workflow runs when you push changes to the repository.

## Step 2 - Create a Job

Create a job that runs the TestCafe tests.

Provide the [job name](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idname) and specify the [type of machine](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idruns-on) that should run the job.

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]

jobs:
  test:
    name: Run TestCafe Tests
    runs-on: windows-latest
```

This job runs on a GitHub-hosted virtual machine with the latest Windows version. `test` is the [job ID](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_id) that must be unique to the `jobs` object.

## Step 3 - Provide BrowserStack Credentials

> In order for TestCafe to be able to use browsers, provided by BrowserStack, valid Username and Access Key are necessary. Values are unique to your BrowserStack account and can be obtained from your [account settings](https://www.browserstack.com/accounts/settings).

Reviewer 2: "In order for TestCafe to be able to use browsers, provided by BrowserStack, valid Username and Access Key are necessary."

Does BrowserStack provide browsers? Or does it provide the Username and Access Key?

Author: Both. BrowserStack is a service that hosts (i.e. provides) browsers for users. 

To access the service, user need to use Username and Access Key (essentially, login and password). User logs onto BrowserStack website in their browser, copies Username and Access Key from there, punches it into TestCafe (step 3) so it can call BrowserStack on their (user's) behalf.

Therefore, user provides BrowserStack's creds **to** TestCafe

Am I being clear?

Reviewer 2: Thank you! Please see my suggestion below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order for TestCafe to use browsers provided by BrowserStack, valid BrowserStack credentials (Username and Access Key) are required. These credentials are unique to your BrowserStack account and can be obtained from your [account settings](https://www.browserstack.com/accounts/settings) page.
```

> Values should be set to `BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME` and `BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables respectively. However, for security purposes, it is reccomended that you provide them as [secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets) in your repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Values should be set to `BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME` and `BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables, respectively. However, for security purposes, you should provide them as [secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets) in your repository.
```

After adding the secrets, add the following content to the [env](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#env) in your workflow YAML file:

{% raw %}

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]
env:
        BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY }}"
        BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME }}"
jobs:
  test:
    name: Run TestCafe Tests
    runs-on: windows-latest
    steps:
      - name: Check out the repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v1
      - name: Run tests
        uses: DevExpress/testcafe-action@latest
        with:
            args: "'browserstack:chrome@84.0:Windows 10' tests"
```

{% endraw %}

> ## Step 4 - Add a Step That Fetches The Repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 4 - Add a Step that Fetches the Repository
```

Add a [step](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idsteps) that uses the [checkout](https://github.com/actions/checkout) action to fetch your repository content.

{% raw %}

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]
env:
        BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY }}"
        BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME }}"
jobs:
  test:
    name: Run TestCafe Tests
    runs-on: windows-latest
    steps:
      - name: Check out the repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v1
```

{% endraw %}

> ## Step 5 - Add a Step To Install TestCafe BrowserStack plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 5 - Add a Step to Install the TestCafe BrowserStack Plugin
```

> In order to enable TestCafe to run in the BrowserStack environment, install our [browserstack plugin](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-browser-provider-browserstack).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable TestCafe to run in the BrowserStack environment, install our [browserstack plugin](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-browser-provider-browserstack).
```

{% raw %}

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]
env:
        BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY }}"
        BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME }}"
jobs:
  test:
    name: Run TestCafe Tests
    runs-on: windows-latest
    steps:
      - name: Check out the repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v1
      - name: Install TestCafe BrowserStack plugin
        run: npm install testcafe-browser-provider-browserstack
```

{% endraw %}

> ## Step 6 - Add a Step That Runs TestCafe

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 6 - Add a Step that Runs TestCafe
```

Add the [Run TestCafe](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-action) action. Use the [args](#args) parameter to provide TestCafe [command line arguments](../../reference/command-line-interface.md), including the BrowserStack configuration:

{% raw %}

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]
env:
        BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY }}"
        BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME: "${{ secrets.BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME }}"
jobs:
  test:
    name: Run TestCafe Tests
    runs-on: windows-latest
    steps:
      - name: Check out the repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v1
      - name: Run tests
        uses: DevExpress/testcafe-action@latest
        with:
            args: "'browserstack:chrome@84.0:Windows 10' tests"
```

{% endraw %}

> > Note the additional pair of single quotes- BrowserStack configuration string includes a space, which can be interpreted as a separator by the command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note the additional pair of single quotes. The BrowserStack configuration string includes a space, which can be interpreted as a separator by the command line.
```

> **Note**: Full list of available BrowserStack configurations can be obtained through console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: A full list of available BrowserStack configurations can be obtained through the console.
```

> First, you have to provide your credentials by exporting them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, provide your credentials by exporting them:
```

Author: ```suggestion
First, provide your credentials by exporting them. Run in console :
```

**bash**

```sh
export BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME="<your_browserstack_username>"
export BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY="<your_browserstack_acess_key>"
```

**PowerShell**

```sh
Set-Variable -Name "BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME" -Value "<your_browserstack_username>"
Set-Variable -Name "BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY" -Value "<your_browserstack_acess_key>"
```

> Afterwards, run in console:

Reviewer 2: What is the reader running in the console? TestCafe or BrowserStack, or something else?

Author: During the step above (exporting variables) built-in console commands are run, nothing to do with BrowserStack or TestCafe. That's why the commands differ for bash & powershell.

To pull the list of browsers (lines 180-184), user runs TestCafe

BrowserStack is not called directly anywhere during the course of this guide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, run the following command in the console:
```

```sh
testcafe -b browserstack
```

## Action Options

### args

TestCafe [command line arguments](../../reference/command-line-interface.md).

```yml
- uses: DevExpress/testcafe-action@latest
  with:
    args: "'browserstack:chrome@84.0:Windows 10' fixture.js -s takeOnFails=true -q -c 3"
```

### version

*Optional*

The TestCafe version to install.

```yml
- uses: DevExpress/testcafe-action@latest
  with:
    version: "1.6.0"
    args: "'browserstack:chrome@84.0:Windows 10' tests"
```

> Commence the build by commiting changes and pushing to your repository. You can see the results on `Actions` page in your repository.

Reviewer 2: What is pushed to the repository? The changes?

Author: PUSH is a name of the action, so i believe it is valid to say "push to the repository". You just type "git push" in console, and everything that need to get pushed, does.

technically, commits are being pushed though

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start the build, commit changes and push to the repository. You can see the results on the `Actions` page in your repository.
```

## Example

> The following sample demonstrates how to run TestCafe tests across different browser versions and operating systems provided by BrowserStack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example runs TestCafe tests across different browser versions and operating systems provided by BrowserStack.
```

* [Step 2 - Create a Job](#step-2---create-a-job)
* [Step 3 - Provide Your BrowserStack Credentials](#step-3---provide-browserstack-credentials)
* [Step 4 - Add a Step that Fetches the Repository](#step-4---add-a-step-that-fetches-the-repository)
* [Step 5 - Add a Step to Install the TestCafe BrowserStack Plugin](#step-5---add-a-step-to-install-the-testcafe-browserstack-plugin)
* [Step 6 - Add a Step that Runs TestCafe](#step-6---add-a-step-that-runs-testcafe)
* [Action Options](#action-options)
  * [args](#args)
  * [version](#version)
* [Example](#example)

## Step 1 - Create a Workflow

Create a YAML file (for instance, `testcafe-workflow.yml`) in the `.github/workflows` directory in your repository.

Specify the [workflow name](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#name) and the [event](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#on) that triggers this workflow.

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]
```

In this example, the workflow runs when you push changes to the repository.

## Step 2 - Create a Job

Create a job that runs the TestCafe tests.

> Provide the [job name](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idname) and specify the [type of machine](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idruns-on) that should run the job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specify the [job name](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idname) and the [type of machine](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idruns-on) that should run the job.
```

> You can use a GitHub-hosted virtual machine with any base OS to run tests. For simplicity, all examples listed here run on `windows-latest`.

Alternatively, you can [**host your own runners**](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/about-self-hosted-runners) for the job. This gives you more precise control over the environment.

To set up the self-hosted runners, [add them to your repository](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/adding-self-hosted-runners#adding-a-self-hosted-runner-to-a-repository).

Afterwards, configure `runs-on` in your workflow `.yml` file:

```yml
name: End-to-End Tests
on: [push]

jobs:
  test:
    name: Run TestCafe Tests
    runs-on: [self-hosted, linux]
```

> Make sure that the intended machine meets the [requirements for self-hosted runner machines](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/about-self-hosted-runners#requirements-for-self-hosted-runner-machines).
>

> >For more information about self-hosted runners in GitHub Actions workflow, refer to [this page](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/using-self-hosted-runners-in-a-workflow).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>For more information about self-hosted runners in the GitHub Actions workflow, refer to the following topic: [Using self-hosted runners in a workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/using-self-hosted-runners-in-a-workflow).
```

## Step 3 - Provide BrowserStack Credentials

> In order for TestCafe to use browsers provided by BrowserStack, valid BrowserStack credentials (Username and Access Key) are required. These credentials are unique to your BrowserStack account and can be obtained from the [account settings](https://www.browserstack.com/accounts/settings) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order for TestCafe to use BrowserStack browsers, valid BrowserStack credentials (Username and Access Key) are required. These credentials are unique to your BrowserStack account and can be obtained from the [account settings](https://www.browserstack.com/accounts/settings) page.
```

**Note**: A full list of available BrowserStack configurations can be obtained through the console.
First, provide your credentials by exporting them:

**bash**

```sh
export BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME="<your_browserstack_username>"
export BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY="<your_browserstack_acess_key>"
```

**PowerShell**

```sh
Set-Variable -Name "BROWSERSTACK_USERNAME" -Value "<your_browserstack_username>"
Set-Variable -Name "BROWSERSTACK_ACCESS_KEY" -Value "<your_browserstack_acess_key>"
```

Then, run the following command in the console:

```sh
testcafe -b browserstack
```

## Action Options

### args

TestCafe [command line arguments](../../reference/command-line-interface.md).

```yml
- uses: DevExpress/testcafe-action@latest
  with:
    args: "'browserstack:chrome@84.0:Windows 10' fixture.js -s takeOnFails=true -q -c 3"
```

### version

*Optional*

The TestCafe version to install.

```yml
- uses: DevExpress/testcafe-action@latest
  with:
    version: "1.6.0"
    args: "'browserstack:chrome@84.0:Windows 10' tests"
```

To start the build, commit changes and push to the repository. You can see the results on the `Actions` page in your repository.

## Example

> The following example runs TestCafe tests across different browser versions and operating systems provided by BrowserStack.

Reviewer 2: "and operating systems provided by BrowserStack" sounds like BrowserStack actually provides these operating systems. Is this correct?

Or do you mean that BrowserStack emulates different browser versions and operating systems?

Reviewer 2: Okay, I understand. Thank you.

This job runs on a GitHub-hosted virtual machine with the latest Windows version. `test` is the [job ID](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_id) that must be unique to the `jobs` object.

> > You can use a GitHub-hosted virtual machine with *any base OS* to run tests. For the sake of simplicity, all examples listed here run on `windows-latest`.

Reviewer 3: This phrase is fine, but I guess if we change `For the sake of simplicity` -> `For simplicity` we'll sound more technical.

> Alternatively, you can [*host your own runners*](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/about-self-hosted-runners) for the job. This might be beneficial if you need more precise control over the environment.

Reviewer 3: > This might be beneficial if you need more precise control over the environment.

We'll save many words if we write:

`This gives you more precise control over the environment.`
